README.md, before:

# `d:bug` | Data Analysis & Bioinformatics User Group 
### @ Weill Cornell Medicine, NYC
We meet on __select Thursdays, 1:30 pm__ in the seminar room of the Department for Physiology & Biophysics on the 5th floor in the main WCM building. 
If you would like to receive more information and make sure you get the announcements of the next meeting straight into your inbox, send an email to the [Applied Bioinformatics Core](https://abc.med.cornell.edu) of Weill Cornell Medicine.

Each meeting will get its folder where the material that was discussed will be available.

Feel free to post issues/comments etc.

For the collection of future topics, see this [issue here](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/issues/1).

## Topics

| Date | Topic | Presenter |
|------|-------|-----------|
| 2017-08-03 | Docker for HPC environments: Singularity | Vanessa Borcherding |
| 2017-05-11 | [Robustify your R code using the testthat package](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/R_testthat) | [Davide Risso](https://drisso.github.io/) |
| 2017-04-13 | [Bioinformatic Applications of Cytoscape](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/Cytoscape) | [Peter Oxley](mailto:pro2004@med.cornell.edu) |
| 2017-03-23 | [Building networks using Cytoscape](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/Cytoscape) | Michael Bales |
|2016-12-07 | [How to create R packages](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/R_Packages)    | [Khagay Nagdimov](mailto:khagay@nyu.edu) |
|2016-11-17 | Using Docker | [Evan Biederstedt](mailto:ebiederstedt@nygenome.org) |
|2016-09-22 | [Mastering `git`](https://github.com/abcdbug/team-up-with-git) | [John Richardson](mailto:john@physbio-tech.net) |
|2016-08-18 | [R's `data.table` package: Slicing large tables the Ninja way!](https://github.com/alexpenson/data.table.examples) | [Alex Penson](https://www.mskcc.org/research-areas/labs/members/alexander-penson) |
|2016-07-07 | [Jupyter Notebooks: Seamlessly combining research and documentation](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/JupyterNotebooks) | [Greg Putzel](mailto://grp2009@med.cornell.edu)  |
|2016-06-09 | [Makefiles: Making data analysis reproducible](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/Makefiles) | [Paul Zumbo](https://abc.med.cornell.edu/) |
|2016-05-05 | [HDF5: Managing Large Data Without Losing Your Mind](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/HDF5-Format) | [Jin-Hyun Ju](http://mezeylab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/PeopleDetail.aspx?Y=Jinhyun%20Ju) |

## Useful links

* [http://explainshell.com/](http://explainshell.com/) --> get feedback on your bash code!
* [https://www.cheatography.com/bavo-van-achte/cheat-sheets/gnumake/pdf/](https://www.cheatography.com) --> gnumake cheatsheet

----------------------------
| [Applied Bioinformatics Core](https://abc.med.cornell.edu) | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abcdbug/dbug/master/WCM_logo.png" alt="WCM" style="height: 20px;"/> |
|---------------|---------------|

Commit message:

social event added to the meeting list

README.md, after:

# `d:bug` | Data Analysis & Bioinformatics User Group 
### @ Weill Cornell Medicine, NYC
We meet on __select Thursdays, 1:30 pm__ in the seminar room of the Department for Physiology & Biophysics on the 5th floor in the main WCM building. 
This is a place for informal exchange of coding tips and tricks with a focus on _how_ stuff is actually done. Think interactive version of stackoverflow.

If you would like to receive more information and make sure you get the announcements of the next meeting straight into your inbox, send an email to the [Applied Bioinformatics Core](https://abc.med.cornell.edu) of Weill Cornell Medicine.

Each meeting will get its folder where the material that was discussed will be available.

Feel free to post issues/comments etc. And if you have a tool or topic that's near and dear to your coder's heart, _please share_! :)

For the collection of future topics, see this [issue here](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/issues/1).

## Topics

| Date | Topic | Presenter |
|------|-------|-----------|
| 2017-08-03 | Docker for HPC environments: Singularity | Vanessa Borcherding |
| 2017-07-27 | Special BarCode event (minus code) | [Jaffrey's](https://www.yelp.com/biz/the-jeffrey-craft-beer-and-bites-new-york) |
| 2017-05-11 | [Robustify your R code using the testthat package](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/R_testthat) | [Davide Risso](https://drisso.github.io/) |
| 2017-04-13 | [Bioinformatic Applications of Cytoscape](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/Cytoscape) | [Peter Oxley](mailto:pro2004@med.cornell.edu) |
| 2017-03-23 | [Building networks using Cytoscape](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/Cytoscape) | Michael Bales |
|2016-12-07 | [How to create R packages](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/R_Packages)    | [Khagay Nagdimov](mailto:khagay@nyu.edu) |
|2016-11-17 | Using Docker | [Evan Biederstedt](mailto:ebiederstedt@nygenome.org) |
|2016-09-22 | [Mastering `git`](https://github.com/abcdbug/team-up-with-git) | [John Richardson](mailto:john@physbio-tech.net) |
|2016-08-18 | [R's `data.table` package: Slicing large tables the Ninja way!](https://github.com/alexpenson/data.table.examples) | [Alex Penson](https://www.mskcc.org/research-areas/labs/members/alexander-penson) |
|2016-07-07 | [Jupyter Notebooks: Seamlessly combining research and documentation](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/JupyterNotebooks) | [Greg Putzel](mailto://grp2009@med.cornell.edu)  |
|2016-06-09 | [Makefiles: Making data analysis reproducible](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/Makefiles) | [Paul Zumbo](https://abc.med.cornell.edu/) |
|2016-05-05 | [HDF5: Managing Large Data Without Losing Your Mind](https://github.com/abcdbug/dbug/tree/master/HDF5-Format) | [Jin-Hyun Ju](http://mezeylab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/PeopleDetail.aspx?Y=Jinhyun%20Ju) |

## Useful links

* [http://explainshell.com/](http://explainshell.com/) --> get feedback on your bash code!
* [https://www.cheatography.com/bavo-van-achte/cheat-sheets/gnumake/pdf/](https://www.cheatography.com) --> gnumake cheatsheet

----------------------------
| [Applied Bioinformatics Core](https://abc.med.cornell.edu) | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abcdbug/dbug/master/WCM_logo.png" alt="WCM" style="height: 20px;"/> |
|---------------|---------------|
